the next segment is going to be all set
certain simplification is one of the
challenges in text summarization so far
everything that we have discussed
involved extractive summarization where
we take entire sentences and put them in
the output now we're going to briefly
look at going beyond sentence extraction
specifically taking entire sentences and
cutting off some pieces from them to
make them shorter so some of the parts
of the sentences that could potentially
go in summaries may be removed for
variety of reasons one of them is that
we want to have more space available for
more important content so in order to do
this we have to figure out which
portions of sentences are the least
informative and prior research has found
that those include things like quotes
opposition's
just to remind you in opposition is
something like barack obama comma
president of the united states comma so
the second part of the sentence is
opposition and often it can be removed
without hurting the information content
of the summary other things that can be
removed in many cases are some
adjectives some adverbs embedded clauses
are often some of the first to go
attribution clauses for example who said
what why do we want to do sentence
simplification that many different
applications with one is for things like
subtitling very often there is not
enough space on the screen to include
the entire sentence it's possible to
include just portions of it instead a
headline generation for mobile devices
you may want to produce a shorter
version of a sentence to display in
large font as part of a some of you on a
mobile device and then if the user wants
to read more they can click on the
sentence and see the full text there
also multiple instances where people
have built applications for the visually
impaired people which also involves end
of simplification so i'm going to go
over some examples of work on center
simplification starting by a paper by
Kevin Knight and Daniel Marku from 2000
so in their paper they use a syntactic
information from the sentences and they
compare two different approaches
one is a noisy channel based model and
one is based on decisions and the kind
of rules that they have are based on the
constituency of the sentence so for
example they may want to convert the
non-face goes to the terminal adjective
noun to one that says noun phrase goes
to the terminal now thereby dropping the
adjective so they have a set of rules
like this and they have used this
approach on a corpus of simplified
sentences from computer manuals the so
called Ziff Davis corpus so here some
examples from that corpus you have a
full sentence like the documentation is
typical of excellent quality excellent
and then you also have a shorter version
of it it's part of the training data
documentation is excellent as you can
see here we have removed some individual
words for example articles some
adjectives and some prepositional
phrases in this case here's some more
examples of our design goals were
achieved and the delivered performance
matches the speed of the underlying
device this is the full sentence the
short sentences all design goals were
achieved so we are missing possessive we
are missing some portions of conjunctive
clause and also some prepositional
phrases okay some more examples I'm not
going to read them all please let me
read this one beyond the basic level the
operations of the three products vary
widely so here we are skipping the
entire clause beyond the basic level
forget the operations of the three
products vary widely so one possible
source of information for building
sentence compression or sentence
simplification applications comes from a
large corpus called the simple English
Wikipedia so let me show you what it
looks like on this slide I'm going to
show you an entry about the person taken
directly from the English Wikipedia
which is a full length sentences so you
can see that a lot of the information in
it is in long sentences with a lot of
additional information for example a
positions and prepositional phrases that
we're a lot of detail you can spend a
little bit of time on the side to
understand what the general structure of
this document is and then you should
compare it with the matching entry for
the same person in the simple English
Wikipedia it would be nice to see those
side-by-side and you can figure out how
often you can compare which sentences
from one of the documents matches which
sentence from the other one and how you
can use this alignment to simplify
sentences automatically so there are
many other projects for text
simplification but for this course we're
not going to look at them we're going to
switch now to a different topic